(1907-1954) Born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Caldrón, Frida Kahlo lived almost her entire life in the La Casa Azul (The Blue House), in what was then the outskirts of Mexico City. Her father, Guillermo Kahlo (born Carl Wilhelm Kahlo), was a German immigrant, and photographer by trade. Her mother, Matilde Calderón y Gonzalez, was of Amerindian (an indigenous South American people) and Spanish ancestry. Guillermo married Matilde after the death of his first wife, and they had four daughters, Frida being the third.

Frida suffered physical misery and pain most of her life. She contracted polio at age six, leaving her with a withered leg, which she disguised with long colorful skirts. At eighteen, she was involved in a horrific trolly car accident that resulted in extensive damage to her spinal column, pelvis, and internal organs. Constant pain and the dozens of surgeries she endured were reoccurring themes in her artwork.

Frida admired the famous Mexican painter, Diego Rivera, and exchanged correspondence with him for years before she finally met him. When she did, they developed an intimate relationship, and eventually married in 1929, over the objections of her parents. Their marriage was troubled and contentious. They often has separate living arrangements, and both engaged in numerous extra-marital affairs. They were divorced in 1939, but remarried again in 1940. Through her marriage to Diego, she was introduced to New York galleries, where she gained her own celebrity.

Frida died at the age of 47. She was in constant pain her final years, often bed ridden for months at a time, complications of her injuries and subsequent treatments. Yet, she did not allow her condition to diminish her passion for art. She had a special easel built so she could paint in bed, and attended one of her openings by having four strong men carry her, on her bed, into the gallery.

Kahlo embraced indigenous Mexican culture, often combining elements of religious tradition, dramatic symbolism, bright colors, and primitive style in her artwork. She was often the subject of her own art, and produced many self portraits during her career. Her early works was strongly influenced by Diego, but always incorporated her own symbolism and imagery.

[The Suicide of Dorothy Hale, 1938]